# CORD Accounts

This document covers the basics of CORD account addresses and how they are created. An address is the public part of a CORD account. The private part is the key used to access this address. The public and private part together make up a CORD account.

### Address Format

The address format used in CORD is SS58. The format contains an address type prefix (29 for CORD) that identifies an address as belonging to a specific network.

CORD supports the following cryptographic key pairs and signing algorithms:

- Sr25519 - Schnorr signatures on the Ristretto group
- Ed25519

It's important to understand that the different formats for different networks are merely different representations of the same public key in a private-public keypair generated by an address generation tool. This makes the addresses compatible across Substrate-based chains.

## Account Abstractions

CORD uses multiple sets of public/private key pairs to represent participants of the network.

These abstractions are:

- Accounts
  - Stash Key: The Stash account is meant to hold large amounts of funds. This account is like a "savings account" in that you should not make frequent transactions from it. Therefore, its private key should be treated with the utmost security.
  - Controller Key: The Controller keys are the public/private key pair that defines a Controller account. The Controller account signals one's intent to validate or nominate. These accounts should only hold a minimal amount of funds to pay transaction fees. Its private key should be secure as it can affect validator settings, and is used regularly for validator maintenance.
- Session Keys: Session keys are "hot keys" that are used by validators to sign consensus-related messages. They are not meant to be used as account keys that control funds and should only be used for their intended purpose. They should be changed regularly.

## Session Keys

Session keys are used by validators to sign consensus-related messages. CORD node uses a unique session key for BABE, GRANDPA, "I'm Online" and Authority Discovery operations. To prevent the wrong key being used for the wrong operation, strong Rust types wrap these keys, keeping them incompatible with one another and ensuring they are only used for their intended purpose.

If a Session key is compromised, attackers could commit slashable behavior. Session keys should be changed regularly (e.g. every session) via the [rotate_keys](https://paritytech.github.io/substrate/master/sc_rpc/author/trait.AuthorApiClient.html#method.rotate_keys) RPC for increased security.
